CNV-80383: Add 7 CNV release notes for 4.22 (#112502)
openshift/openshift-docs: virt/release_notes/virt-4-22-release-notes.adoc

// Storage

Configure predictable PVC and DV names when cloning VMs::
+
Virtual machine (VM) owners and cluster administrators can configure predictable persistent volume claim (PVC) and data volume (DV) names when cloning a VM. Use the `volumeNamePolicy` to include the target VM name in the restored PVC names to maintain consistency and manageability of the storage resources. This improves compatibility with orchestrators that rely on the original DV name after restoration.
+
link:https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/CNV-76230[CNV-76230]

Keep original PVC names when restoring a virtual machine from a VM snapshot::
+

> Virtual machine (VM) owners who restore a VM from a snapshot can retain the original names of persistent volume claims (PVCs). You can use the In place Volume Restore Policy section of the Restore Snapshot dialog in the OpenShift Virtualization user interface to preserve the PVC names. This sets the `spec.volumeRestorePolicy` field on the `VirtualMachineRestore` resource. If users opt not to keep the original PVC name, OpenShift Virtualization assigns a randomized PVC name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Virtual machine (VM) owners who restore a VM from a snapshot can retain the original names of persistent volume claims (PVCs). You can use the *In place Volume Restore Policy* section of the *Restore Snapshot* dialog in the web console to preserve the PVC names. This sets the `spec.volumeRestorePolicy` field on the `VirtualMachineRestore` resource. If users opt not to keep the original PVC name, {VirtProductName} assigns a randomized PVC name.
```

Author: Fixed!

+
link:https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/CNV-71612[CNV-71612]

New default for PVC naming during VM restore and clone requests::
+
With this update, the `volumeRestorePolicy` default setting has been changed to `PrefixTargetName`. This means that the name of the target virtual machine (VM) is now used as a prefix for new PVC names created with VM restore and clone requests.
+
link:https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/CNV-77397[CNV-77397]

Insert and eject CD-ROMs in a live VM::
+

> OpenShift Virtualization support for declarative hot plug of CD-ROM storage devices in live virtual machines (VMs) is generally available. You can insert and eject CD-ROM storage in running VMs by enabling the `DeclarativeHotplugVolumes` feature gate in the `HyperConverged` custom resource (CR) without restarting the VM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{VirtProductName} support for declarative hot plug of CD-ROM storage devices in live virtual machines (VMs) is generally available. You can insert and eject CD-ROM storage in running VMs by enabling the `DeclarativeHotplugVolumes` feature gate in the `HyperConverged` custom resource (CR) without restarting the VM.
```

Author: Fixed!

+
link:https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/CNV-68916[CNV-68916]

// Web console

Configure AAQ to track resource utilization for VMs and mixed workloads::
+

> Cluster administrators can use the Application-Aware Quota (AAQ) Operator in the OpenShift user interface as the primary mechanism for defining and managing resource limits for virtual machines (VMs) and mixed workloads. You can configure AAQ to track resource utilization for VMs only, for both pods and VMs together, or for VMs and pods separately with dedicated quotas for each.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cluster administrators can use the Application-Aware Quota (AAQ) Operator in the {product-title} web console as the primary mechanism for defining and managing resource limits for virtual machines (VMs) and mixed workloads. You can configure AAQ to track resource utilization for VMs only, for both pods and VMs together, or for VMs and pods separately with dedicated quotas for each.
```
idk why we're referring to things as "X user interface" in some of these 😄 usually I think for OCP docs at least it's usually just like "{product-title} web console", but idk if this is a preference or something we should be more consistent about.

Author: Fixed!

+
link:https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/CNV-61720[CNV-61720]

> Configure a run strategy for virtual machines in OpenShift Virtualization user interface::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure a run strategy for virtual machines in the web console::
```
Suggestion to make this cleaner - if not, use the product name attribute here

Author: Fixed!

+

> Virtual machine (VM) owners can configure and edit a run strategy that models how the VMs behave after a shutdown, restart, or a failure. You can choose a run strategy from `Rerun on failure`, `Always`, `Halted`, and `Manual` in the Scheduling tab of the OpenShift Virtualization user interface. You can edit the run strategy across all VM creation flows and the details view for a streamlined experience when customizing VMs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Virtual machine (VM) owners can configure and edit a run strategy that models how the VMs behave after a shutdown, restart, or a failure. You can choose a run strategy from `Rerun on failure`, `Always`, `Halted`, and `Manual` in the *Scheduling* tab of the {VirtProductName} user interface. You can edit the run strategy across all VM creation flows and the details view for a streamlined experience when customizing VMs.
```

Author: Fixed!

// Storage

Configure predictable PVC and DV names when cloning VMs::
+

> Virtual machine (VM) owners and cluster administrators can configure predictable persistent volume claim (PVC) and data volume (DV) names when cloning a VM. Use the `VolumeRestorePolicy` to include the target VM name in the restored PVC names to maintain consistency and manageability of the storage resources. This improves compatibility with orchestrators that rely on the original DV name after restoration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Virtual machine (VM) owners and cluster administrators can configure predictable persistent volume claim (PVC) and data volume (DV) names when cloning a VM. Use the `volumeNamePolicy` to include the target VM name in the restored PVC names to maintain consistency and manageability of the storage resources. This improves compatibility with orchestrators that rely on the original DV name after restoration.
```
for `VirtualMachineClone` resource the correct spec value is `volumeNamePolicy`
`VolumeRestorePolicy` is for `VirtualMachineRestore` resource

Author: Fixed - changed to `volumeNamePolicy` for VirtualMachineClone. Thanks for catching that!

+
link:https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/CNV-71612[CNV-71612]

New default for PVC naming during VM restore and clone requests::
+
With this update, the `volumeRestorePolicy` default setting has been changed to `PrefixTargetName`. This means that the name of the target virtual machine (VM) is now used as a prefix for new PVC names created with VM restore and clone requests.
+
link:https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/CNV-77397[CNV-77397]

Insert and eject CD-ROMs in a live VM::
+
OpenShift Virtualization support for declarative hot plug of CD-ROM storage devices in live virtual machines (VMs) is generally available. You can insert and eject CD-ROM storage in running VMs by enabling the `DeclarativeHotplugVolumes` feature gate in the `HyperConverged` custom resource (CR) without restarting the VM.
+
link:https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/CNV-68916[CNV-68916]

// Web console

Configure AAQ to track resource utilization for VMs and mixed workloads::
+

> Cluster administrators can use the Application-Aware Quota (AAQ) operator in the OpenShift user interface as the primary mechanism for defining and managing resource limits for virtual machines (VMs) and mixed workloads. You can configure AAQ to track resource utilization for VMs only, for both pods and VMs together, or for VMs and pods separately with dedicated quotas for each.

Author: Fixed - capitalized 'Operator' to match the established naming convention in virt/managing_vms/advanced_vm_management/virt-understanding-aaq-operator.adoc which uses 'Application-Aware Quota (AAQ) Operator' with capital O.
